# EEG2BIDS

Notes: 
- only works for files that can be read by fieldtrip. Currently only tested for .bdf files.
- assumes access to a slurm batch system with the command ```sbatch```
- currently only EEG2BIDS_MMN.m is up to date, thus for examples refer ONLY to this file. 
- ```EEG2BIDS_template.m``` is not up to date either 

## How to make a BIDS compliant EEG dataset

1. Clone this repository and a modified version of the fieldtrip repository from [here](https://github.com/SimonYamazaki/fieldtrip). Remember to add the paths of these repositories in your matlab scripts. 

2. Make a ```EEG2BIDS_*YOUR-TASK*.m``` file as a matlab function. Look at already existing files in ```/Examples``` for the ASSR-reg-task and the MMN-task examples. The examples include comprehensive comments about how to make the scripts, thus go through each line that seems appropriate for your dataset. A few files are loaded by these examples scripts which includes: 
	```*YOUR-TASK*_events.txt```,
	```*YOUR-TASK*_instructions.txt```,
	```participants_variables.txt```
These files must follow the exact format as seen in ```/Examples/example_files``` in this repository to be loaded correctly by functions in ```/utils```. If files follow another format the loading procedure of such files must be changed in the ```EEG2BIDS_*YOUR-TASK*.m``` script. If integer json file fields are desired, name the field ```Int_1``` for the integer field ```1``` in your matlab script. The python script ```/src/change_json_int_keys.py``` will remove the ```'Int_'``` part which leaves only the integer.


3. In a terminal run the following line from ```/src``` folder: 
```
bash EEG2BIDS.sh --bids_dir /path/to/bids_dir --script path/to/matlab/script.m
```
This command will make the bids_dir for all subjects and files specified in your matlab script. The bids_dir will be created if it does not already exist. It is assumed that the bids_dir created with this method is a ```/rawdata``` directory. Thus if the root directory generated by this method should be located where an already created sourcedata directory exists, the bids_dir should be something like ```/path/to/sourcedata/parent/directory/rawdata```. If the ```EEG2BIDS_*YOUR-TASK*.m``` file is made in a similar manner to the examples given in this repository, single subjects can be run by specifying a subject and a session argument. Here is an example:

```
bash EEG2BIDS.sh --bids_dir /path/to/bids_dir --script path/to/matlab/script.m --subject 001 --session via11
``` 

By default the output of the BIDS directory creation is put into a .txt file located in the ```/cluster_submission``` directory in the BIDS directory. The name of this output file follows the following scheme: 
```
slurm-{SLURM_JOB_ID}-YY-MM-DDT-HH:MM:SS.txt
```
If a single subject is run the subject ID is appended as so:
```
slurm-{SLURM_JOB_ID}-YY-MM-DDT-HH:MM:SS-SUBJECT_ID.txt
```

In case you have multiple tasks / paradigms that you want in one bids_dir, make a ```EEG2BIDS_*YOUR-TASK*.m``` for each task, and run them sequentially with the same bids_dir. Make sure to only write init.dataset_description information in the first task.


(4). If any source data or derivative data should be added to the BIDS directory make a ```EEG2BIDS_*YOUR-TASK*_derivatives.m``` or ```EEG2BIDS_*YOUR-TASK*_sourcedata.m``` file.

If nothing is outputted from your matlab script in the .out file, debug by running the matlab script isolated in matlab. E.g. run the function in your script in the matlab command window without any specific subject ```EEG2BIDS_flanker('/path/to/bids_dir')``` or for a specific subject ```EEG2BIDS_flanker('/path/to/bids_dir',"009","via11")``` 
