README.md, before:

## EEG2BIDS

Notes: 
- only works for files that can be read by fieldtrip. Currently only tested for .bdf files.
- assumes access to a slurm batch system with the command ```sbatch```

# How to make a BIDS compliant EEG dataset

1. Clone this repository and a modified version of the fieldtrip repository from [here](https://github.com/SimonYamazaki/fieldtrip). Remember to add the paths of these repositories in your matlab scripts. 

2. Make a ```EEG2BIDS_*YOUR-TASK*.m``` file as a matlab function. Look at already existing files in ```/Examples``` for the ASSR-reg-task and the MMN-task examples. A few files are loaded by these examples scripts which includes: 
	```*YOUR-TASK*_events.txt```,
	```*YOUR-TASK*_instructions.txt```,
	```participants_variables.txt```
These files must follow the exact format of the examples in this repository to be loaded correctly. If files follow another format the loading procedure of such files must be changed in the ```EEG2BIDS_*YOUR-TASK*.m``` script. If json file fields should be integers, name the field ```Int_1``` for a integer field called 1.


3. In a terminal run the following line from ```/src``` folder: 
```
bash EEG2BIDS.sh --bids_dir /path/to/bids_dir --script path/to/matlab/script.m
```
If the ```EEG2BIDS_*YOUR-TASK*.m``` file is made in a similar manner to the examples given in this repository, single subjects can be run by specifying a subject and a session argument. The bids_dir will be created if it does not exist. Example:
```
bash EEG2BIDS.sh --bids_dir /path/to/bids_dir --script path/to/matlab/script.m --subject 001 --session via11
```
By default the output of the BIDS directory creation is put into a .txt file located in the ```/cluster_submission``` directory in the BIDS directory. The name of this output file follows the following scheme: 
```
slurm-SLURM_JOB_ID-YY-MM-DDT-HH:MM:SS.txt
```
If a single subject is run the subject ID is appended as so:
```
slurm-SLURM_JOB_ID-YY-MM-DDT-HH:MM:SS-SUBJECT_ID.txt
```

(4). If any source data or derivative data should be added to the BIDS directory make a ```EEG2BIDS_*YOUR-TASK*_derivatives.m``` or ```EEG2BIDS_*YOUR-TASK*_sourcedata.m``` file.

If nothing is outputted from your matlab script in the .out file, debug by running the matlab script isolated in matlab. E.g. run your function in the matlab command window without any specific subject ```EEG2BIDS_flanker('/path/to/bids_dir')``` or for a specific subject ```EEG2BIDS_flanker('/path/to/bids_dir',"009","via11")```

Commit message:

example files uploaded to see formatting and readme update

README.md, after:

# EEG2BIDS

Notes: 
- only works for files that can be read by fieldtrip. Currently only tested for .bdf files.
- assumes access to a slurm batch system with the command ```sbatch```

## How to make a BIDS compliant EEG dataset

1. Clone this repository and a modified version of the fieldtrip repository from [here](https://github.com/SimonYamazaki/fieldtrip). Remember to add the paths of these repositories in your matlab scripts. 

2. Make a ```EEG2BIDS_*YOUR-TASK*.m``` file as a matlab function. Look at already existing files in ```/Examples``` for the ASSR-reg-task and the MMN-task examples. A few files are loaded by these examples scripts which includes: 
	```*YOUR-TASK*_events.txt```,
	```*YOUR-TASK*_instructions.txt```,
	```participants_variables.txt```
These files must follow the exact format as seen in ```/Examples/example_files``` in this repository to be loaded correctly by functions in ```/utils```. If files follow another format the loading procedure of such files must be changed in the ```EEG2BIDS_*YOUR-TASK*.m``` script. If integer json file fields are desired, name the field ```Int_1``` for the integer field ```1``` in your matlab script. This is performed by the script ```/src/change_json_int_keys.py```.


3. In a terminal run the following line from ```/src``` folder: 
```
bash EEG2BIDS.sh --bids_dir /path/to/bids_dir --script path/to/matlab/script.m
```
If the ```EEG2BIDS_*YOUR-TASK*.m``` file is made in a similar manner to the examples given in this repository, single subjects can be run by specifying a subject and a session argument. The bids_dir will be created if it does not exist. Example:
```
bash EEG2BIDS.sh --bids_dir /path/to/bids_dir --script path/to/matlab/script.m --subject 001 --session via11
```
By default the output of the BIDS directory creation is put into a .txt file located in the ```/cluster_submission``` directory in the BIDS directory. The name of this output file follows the following scheme: 
```
slurm-SLURM_JOB_ID-YY-MM-DDT-HH:MM:SS.txt
```
If a single subject is run the subject ID is appended as so:
```
slurm-SLURM_JOB_ID-YY-MM-DDT-HH:MM:SS-SUBJECT_ID.txt
```

(4). If any source data or derivative data should be added to the BIDS directory make a ```EEG2BIDS_*YOUR-TASK*_derivatives.m``` or ```EEG2BIDS_*YOUR-TASK*_sourcedata.m``` file.

If nothing is outputted from your matlab script in the .out file, debug by running the matlab script isolated in matlab. E.g. run your function in the matlab command window without any specific subject ```EEG2BIDS_flanker('/path/to/bids_dir')``` or for a specific subject ```EEG2BIDS_flanker('/path/to/bids_dir',"009","via11")```
